Well, congratulations,
you have all survived to have now coded
every single section of this website.
It's all been coded, and we are ready
now to start moving things into VS code.
The last step here for putting
together this homepage is to actually
assemble the homepage from
the Component CodePens that we have.
So the first thing that I need
to ask everybody here to do,
is to open up VS Code.
If you want to open up your copy of VS
Code, you should see something like this.
It looks absolutely like nothing at all.
This is just plain old VS Code.
What I'm going to do to get started here,
I'm just gonna work on my desktop.
And here on my desktop,
I am going to make a new folder.
However you go about making a new folder,
make a new folder right
here on your desktop, and
I am going to call this portfolio, that is
going to be the name of the folder where
I'm going to keep all of my files
associated with this particular website.
Inside of portfolio,
I am going to make more folders.
I'm gonna make one folder called img.
That is where my images are going to go.
And I'm going to make another folder here.
This is going to It's gonna be called CSS.
Guess what goes in there?
Okay, that's where our style
sheets are gonna go, all right?
And then what I can do is, in VS Code,
I can just drag my portfolio
folder right into VS Code.
And it should set itself up so
that you can see the folders
over here on the left hand side.
Now we're gonna do a whole
lot of copying and pasting.
First thing we're gonna do is download
some images in a starting HTML file from
GitHub.
You can get there from the course
website if you go to the GitHub icon
up here in the upper right-hand corner and
click on it.
This is going to put you into GitHub.
And what you'll see here is chapter six.
This is the thing that we're going
to need to download to our computer.
If you're a GitHub person and
you're familiar with how GitHub works,
do your GitHub magic, however it
is that you wind up doing that and
download these files to your computer.
If you are not a GitHub person,
what I would recommend that you do is
here in this green button that says code.
There is an option to download a zip file.
That's what we're gonna do here.
And it's gonna ask me
where to download it.
I'm going to put it on my desktop.
Okay.
And then I'm going to go to my desktop,
and
inside of my portfolio folder,
I'm gonna unzip my zip here.
I'm gonna grab my images out
of this folder, all of them.
And I'm going to drag them into
my portfolio images folder.
[SOUND] Okay.
I'm also gonna grab the project,
start.HTML, and
I'm gonna drag and drop that into
my portfolio folder as well, okay.
And again, if you know, if you're a GitHub
person and you know how to do this,
you just do your thing.
The end result should be that
you have a folder called CSS,
a folder called Images that has all of
the images in it that you downloaded,
and a file called Project Start.HTML, and
all of those should be inside
of a folder called Portfolio.
Everybody okay so far?
Fantastic.
Okay.
Great.
So now that we have those folders and
the images that are downloaded and
we're set up and ready to go with that.
What we're going to do is go
from our most recent CodePen.
We'll copy the CSS from that and
paste it into a new style dot CSS folder.
And so
the most recent CodePen was Chapter five,
which we just went through, putting
together the featured project here.
This contains all of the CSS that
we've written in the course to this
point in time.
If you just copy this CSS here,
I'm just gonna highlight,
I'm gonna copy, and then in VS Code Inside
of my CSS folder I'm gonna start a new
file, I'm gonna call this style.css,
and then I'm just gonna paste in all
of that CSS from code tab and save it.
Then what we're gonna need to do is,
you're gonna need to go through your other
various CodePens here, and
I've given you the links for these.
And we are going to copy and
paste the HTML from each one of these
CodePens into our index.html file.
So, here inside of your VS Code folder,
let's make a new file.
We're gonna call this It's index.html,
okay?
So there that is, and then what I'd like
for you to do, as soon as you've saved it,
very important that you save it first and
call it index.html,
what we're gonna do is we're
gonna type an exclamation point,
just like that, and
then hit the tab key on your computer.
And if you do that,
you will wind up with the sort of
basic framework of an HTML document.
We'll have the head and
we'll have the body.
Did it work?
>> What was it?
Exclamation point then what?
>> Exclamation point and tab.
Worked.
Okay, great, perfect.
Okay, so this is what we need
in order to get started.
So now what we're going to do, is,
we're gonna go in each of these CodePens
in order, and I'm gonna do this
first one for you, and then we'll,
you can do the rest of these on your own.
We're going to start
with header slash nav.
So I'm going to open up this CodePen,
and I am going to copy header,
and then I'm going to go to my VS code,
and I'm going to paste
that here inside of the body,
once again inside of VS Code,
just like CodePen,
it has those little collapsible arrows.
So if you're feeling a little overwhelmed
looking at all the code
we've written today,
that is where you can just collapse these
and make it a little less overwhelming.
Then we're gonna go to intro
We're going to select all.
So Cmd or Ctrl+A, Cmd or
Ctrl+C, and go into VS Code.
And paste.
So that's our intro.
And we're gonna do the same
again with featured.
Everybody getting the idea here,
just copy and paste.
>> So everything is gonna go into index.
>> Everything is gonna
go into index.html and
we're just listing them
one after the other.
In between the body and
the slash body, but
this header here, that was our navigation.
This is our intro and then now I'm
going to paste in my featured.
So we're just gonna continue to paste
these one right after the other like this.
So your code should look kinda like mine,
I've collapsed everything,
so you just see the sections
of the webpage.
So, you should have the head
of the document here,
it's kinda hidden at the moment.
Then inside of the body element,
you should have your header.
You should have your section
with a class of intro.
You should have your section with a class
of Section featured, section with a class
of Section projects, section with a class
of Section contact, and your footer.
Make sense?
Okay, now, so we have an HTML page.
We have a stylesheet.
We've got a ton of images and none of
them are talking to each other, right?
Okay, so one of the things we need to do
is we need to link up our stylesheet,
and we also need to make sure
we've linked up our fonts, right?
So let's link up our stylesheet,
right after the title here,
we can put in link href equals.
We're gonna go into our CSS folder and
find style.CSS.
So this will be CSS slash style.CSS
rel equals Style sheet.
That's how you make a link
to your local style sheet,
we can change the title of this
document to Jen Kramer Portfolio.
Frontend masters or whatever you
wanna put inside of your title.
This is gonna be your homepage.
Everybody okay so far?
Okay.
Now we need to get our fonts.
And, yes.
>> When do we know if we
need to reset that CSS.
>> Well at this point we have worked
through all of the styling of
our documents so we do not need a reset
CSS file for this particular project.